Cli for Microsoft 365 release blog post 7.6 (#1790)
pnp/blog: content/cli-for-microsoft-365/cli-for-microsoft-365-v7-6/index.md

To remove a specific message for the currently signed-in user:

```sh
m365 outlook message remove --id AAMkAGVmMDEzMTM4LTZmYWUtNDdkNC1hMDZiLTU1OGY5OTZhYmY4OABGAAAAAAAiQ8W967B7TKBjgx9rVEURBwAiIsqMbYjsT5e-T7KzowPTAAAAAAEMAAAiIsqMbYjsT5e-T7KzowPTAALvuv07AAA=
```

To remove a specific message from a specific mailbox specified by user ID using application permissions:

```sh
m365 outlook message remove --id AAMkAGVmMDEzMTM4LTZmYWUtNDdkNC1hMDZiLTU1OGY5OTZhYmY4OABGAAAAAAAiQ8W967B7TKBjgx9rVEURBwAiIsqMbYjsT5e-T7KzowPTAAAAAAEMAAAiIsqMbYjsT5e-T7KzowPTAALvuv07AAA= --userId 6799fd1a-723b-4eb7-8e52-41ae530274ca
```

To remove a specific message in a shared mailbox:

```sh
m365 outlook message remove --id AAMkAGVmMDEzMTM4LTZmYWUtNDdkNC1hMDZiLTU1OGY5OTZhYmY4OABGAAAAAAAiQ8W967B7TKBjgx9rVEURBwAiIsqMbYjsT5e-T7KzowPTAAAAAAEMAAAiIsqMbYjsT5e-T7KzowPTAALvuv07AAA= --userName sharedmailbox@contoso.com
```

For more information check the following resources:
- [m365 outlook message remove](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/outlook/message/message-remove/)

### Retrieve retirement report of SharePoint Add-Ins and Azure ACS

> Microsoft has announced that SharePoint Add-Ins and Azure ACS will be retired and as a result will stop working for new tenants as of November 1st, 2024 and they will stop working for existing tenants as of April 2nd, 2026. It's important to remember those dates and migrate your existing Add-in projects to SharePoint Framework based solutions. In a large tenant that has many customizations, it may be hard to find all the places that require your attention. Thankfully CLI for Microsoft 365 may be the answer to that problem.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Microsoft has announced that SharePoint Add-Ins and Azure ACS will be retired and as a result will stop working for new tenants as of November 1st, 2024 and they will stop working for existing tenants as of April 2nd, 2026. It's important to remember those dates and migrate your existing Add-in projects to SharePoint Framework-based solutions. In a large tenant that has many customizations, it may be hard to find all the places that require your attention. Thankfully CLI for Microsoft 365 may be the answer to that problem.
```

One of our contributors added a new script that allows us to get information about retirement-related components from a selected tenant. It covers key elements such as event receivers, SharePoint Add-Ins, and Azure Access Control Service (ACS). If you are eager to find out more check out the [script in our docs](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/sample-scripts/spo/sp-add-ins-and-azure-acs-retirement-report/).

## What's changed

> Besides all these new commands, we've also made some changes to the existing commands. A lot of bugs have been fixed and the codebase has been polished. Some of our existing commands also got improved like the `spo folder add/set` commands that now have the possibility to set the folder color. Another great example is the `spo site recyclebinitem restore` that now has two new options that allow you to restore all items from the first or second-stage recycle bin.

Reviewer: Sounds a bit less dramatic 😄 

```suggestion
Besides all these new commands, we've also made some changes to the existing commands. A few bugs have been fixed and the codebase has been polished. Some of our existing commands also got improved like the `spo folder add/set` commands that now have the possibility to set the folder color. Another great example is the `spo site recyclebinitem restore` that now has two new options that allow you to restore all items from the first and/or second-stage recycle bin.
```

> Besides all these new commands, we've also made some changes to the existing commands. A lot of bugs have been fixed and the codebase has been polished. Some of our existing commands also got improved like the `spo folder add/set` commands that now have the possibility to set the folder color. Another great example is the `spo site recyclebinitem restore` that now has two new options that allow you to restore all items from the first or second-stage recycle bin.

Reviewer: Could we also list these commands at the bottom of this section as we do with other sections? This will increase the click-through.

---
title: CLI for Microsoft 365 v7.6
date: 2024-03-31T08:00:00.000Z
author: Adam Wójcik
githubname: Adam-it
categories:
  - CLI for Microsoft 365
images:
  - images/banner-cli-m365.png
tags:
  - CLI for Microsoft 365
  - Outlook
  - Purview
  - SharePoint
  - SharePoint Framework
type: popular
---

Introducing the latest release of CLI for Microsoft 365. [CLI for Microsoft 365](https://aka.ms/cli-m365) is a cross-platform command-line tool that allows you to manage your Microsoft 365 tenant and SharePoint Framework projects. This minor release introduces several new commands that will enhance the quality of your Microsoft 365 experience.

> Explore the [release notes](https://aka.ms/cli-m365/notes) to discover an array of exciting features and improvements that will revolutionize your Microsoft 365 journey. 
 
## What's new

> ### New purview threatassessment commands

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### New Purview threat assessment commands
```

> The release includes additional management features for purview. We added two new commands that will allow you to list and remove threat assessments. Let's see it in action. 

Reviewer 3: Let's write Purview with capital P as it's a product name

> The release includes additional management features for purview. We added two new commands that will allow you to list and remove threat assessments. Let's see it in action. 

Author: ```suggestion
The release includes additional management features for Purview. We added two new commands that will allow you to list and remove threat assessments. Let's see it in action. 
```

> The release includes additional management features for Purview. We added two new commands that will allow you to list and remove threat assessments. Let's see it in action. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The release includes additional management features for Purview. We added two new commands that will allow you to list and create threat assessments. Let's see it in action. 
```

> To list all threatassessment simply run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To list all threat assessments, simply run:
```

```sh
m365 purview threatassessment list
```

> You may also filter them by type, for example, to list threat assessments of type mail you may run:

Reviewer 3: Simplify by removing "you may"

> You may also filter them by type, for example, to list threat assessments of type mail you may run:

Author: ```suggestion
You may also filter them by type, for example, to list threat assessments of type mail run:
```

```sh
m365 purview threatassessment list --type mail
```

To create a file threat assessment:

```sh
m365 purview threatassessment add --type file --expectedAssessment block --category malware --fileName 'test.txt' --path 'C:\Path\To\File.txt'
```

> Or to Create a url threat assessment run:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Or to Create a URL threat assessment run:
```

Reviewer 3: Also, a lowercase c in create

> Or to Create a url threat assessment run:

Author: ```suggestion
Or to create a url threat assessment run:
```

```sh
m365 purview threatassessment add --type url --expectedAssessment block --category phishing --url 'http://contoso.com'
```

For more information check the following resources:
- [m365 purview threatassessment list](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/purview/threatassessment/threatassessment-list/)
- [m365 purview threatassessment add](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/purview/threatassessment/threatassessment-add/)

> ### Generate Azure DevOps Pipeline for a SharePoint Framework project

Reviewer 2: Maybe an idea to shorten the heading?

```suggestion
### Generate Azure DevOps Pipeline for a SPFx project
```

Reviewer 3: Then it should be "an SPFx"

> ### Generate Azure DevOps Pipeline for a SharePoint Framework project

Author: ```suggestion
### Generate Azure DevOps Pipeline for an SPFx project
```

Till now CLI for Microsoft 365 allowed you to generate a CI/CD workflow for your SharePoint Framework project using the [m365 spfx project github workflow add](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/spfx/project/project-github-workflow-add/) command. In this release, we extended this capability and added the support for Azure DevOps Pipelines. It's important to understand that the command will not create the Azure DevOps pipeline. You will need to manually create it in Azure DevOps. The command will only create the workflow file which you can then push to your repo and create a new YAML pipeline based on it. The command needs to be run in the context of your SharePoint Framework project. The created .yml file will be present in the `.azuredevops/pipelines` directory in your project.

> To add an Azure DevOps Pipeline for a SharePoint Framework project triggered on push to `main`, simply run: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add an Azure DevOps Pipeline for a SPFx project triggered on push to `main`, simply run: 
```

Reviewer 3: "an SPFx"

> To add an Azure DevOps Pipeline for a SharePoint Framework project triggered on push to `main`, simply run: 

Author: ```suggestion
To add an Azure DevOps Pipeline for an SPFx project triggered on push to `main`, simply run: 
```

```sh
m365 spfx project azuredevops pipeline add
```

> To add an Azure DevOps Pipeline for a SharePoint Framework project with `user` login method triggered on push to `dev` branch:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add an Azure DevOps Pipeline for a SPFx project with `user` login method triggered on push to `dev` branch:
```

Reviewer 3: "an SPFx"

> To add an Azure DevOps Pipeline for a SharePoint Framework project with `user` login method triggered on push to `dev` branch:

Author: ```suggestion
To add an Azure DevOps Pipeline for an SPFx project with `user` login method triggered on push to `dev` branch:
```

```sh
m365 spfx project azuredevops pipeline add --loginMethod "user" --branchName "dev"
```

> To add an Azure DevOps Pipeline for a SharePoint Framework project with deployment to a site collection app catalog:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add an Azure DevOps Pipeline for a SPFx project with deployment to a site collection app catalog:
```

Reviewer 3: "an SPFx"

> To add an Azure DevOps Pipeline for a SharePoint Framework project with deployment to a site collection app catalog:

Author: ```suggestion
To add an Azure DevOps Pipeline for an SPFx project with deployment to a site collection app catalog:
```

To remove a specific message for the currently signed-in user:

```sh
m365 outlook message remove --id AAMkAGVmMDEzMTM4LTZmYWUtNDdkNC1hMDZiLTU1OGY5OTZhYmY4OABGAAAAAAAiQ8W967B7TKBjgx9rVEURBwAiIsqMbYjsT5e-T7KzowPTAAAAAAEMAAAiIsqMbYjsT5e-T7KzowPTAALvuv07AAA=
```

To remove a specific message from a specific mailbox specified by user ID using application permissions:

```sh
m365 outlook message remove --id AAMkAGVmMDEzMTM4LTZmYWUtNDdkNC1hMDZiLTU1OGY5OTZhYmY4OABGAAAAAAAiQ8W967B7TKBjgx9rVEURBwAiIsqMbYjsT5e-T7KzowPTAAAAAAEMAAAiIsqMbYjsT5e-T7KzowPTAALvuv07AAA= --userId 6799fd1a-723b-4eb7-8e52-41ae530274ca
```

To remove a specific message in a shared mailbox:

```sh
m365 outlook message remove --id AAMkAGVmMDEzMTM4LTZmYWUtNDdkNC1hMDZiLTU1OGY5OTZhYmY4OABGAAAAAAAiQ8W967B7TKBjgx9rVEURBwAiIsqMbYjsT5e-T7KzowPTAAAAAAEMAAAiIsqMbYjsT5e-T7KzowPTAALvuv07AAA= --userName sharedmailbox@contoso.com
```

For more information check the following resources:
- [m365 outlook message remove](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/cmd/outlook/message/message-remove/)

### Retrieve retirement report of SharePoint Add-Ins and Azure ACS

> Microsoft has announced that SharePoint Add-Ins and Azure ACS will be retired and as a result will stop working for new tenants as of November 1st, 2024 and they will stop working for existing tenants as of April 2nd, 2026. It's important to remember those dates and migrate your existing Add-in projects to SharePoint Framework-based solutions. In a large tenant that has many customizations, it may be hard to find all the places that require your attention. Thankfully CLI for Microsoft 365 may be the answer to that problem.

Reviewer 3: Let's decide if we spell add-ins as Add-Ins or Add-ins and use it consistently throughout

> Microsoft has announced that SharePoint Add-Ins and Azure ACS will be retired and as a result will stop working for new tenants as of November 1st, 2024 and they will stop working for existing tenants as of April 2nd, 2026. It's important to remember those dates and migrate your existing Add-in projects to SharePoint Framework-based solutions. In a large tenant that has many customizations, it may be hard to find all the places that require your attention. Thankfully CLI for Microsoft 365 may be the answer to that problem.

Author: ```suggestion
Microsoft has announced that SharePoint Add-ins and Azure ACS will be retired and as a result will stop working for new tenants as of November 1st, 2024 and they will stop working for existing tenants as of April 2nd, 2026. It's important to remember those dates and migrate your existing Add-in projects to SharePoint Framework-based solutions. In a large tenant that has many customizations, it may be hard to find all the places that require your attention. Thankfully CLI for Microsoft 365 may be the answer to that problem.
```

> One of our contributors added a new script that allows us to get information about retirement-related components from a selected tenant. It covers key elements such as event receivers, SharePoint Add-Ins, and Azure Access Control Service (ACS). If you are eager to find out more check out the [script in our docs](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/sample-scripts/spo/sp-add-ins-and-azure-acs-retirement-report/).

Reviewer 2: No comment, just a kudos on this section! 👏

> One of our contributors added a new script that allows us to get information about retirement-related components from a selected tenant. It covers key elements such as event receivers, SharePoint Add-Ins, and Azure Access Control Service (ACS). If you are eager to find out more check out the [script in our docs](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/sample-scripts/spo/sp-add-ins-and-azure-acs-retirement-report/).

Author: ```suggestion
One of our contributors added a new script that allows us to get information about retirement-related components from a selected tenant. It covers key elements such as event receivers, SharePoint Add-ins, and Azure Access Control Service (ACS). If you are eager to find out more check out the [script in our docs](https://pnp.github.io/cli-microsoft365/sample-scripts/spo/sp-add-ins-and-azure-acs-retirement-report/).
```
